Start by cloning the code using the link in the course notes section.
I've opened the project in intelli-G and I've navigated to the Maven pom file.
Let's take a look at this pom file.
We see a few common dependencies that we've used before,
Data JPA, starter web,
H2 for the in-memory database, starter test.
Scroll down and look at lines 41 through 44.
Here, we are including the Spring Boot starter security dependency,
so that we can use Spring security in this RESTful API.
There's also a testing component.
You see that here on lines 45 through 49,
the Spring Security test.
So let's talk about this RESTful API.
It's the location example that we've used in previous lessons.
So there is a location entity,
meaning that there is a location table in
the H2 in-memory database that maps to this entity.
A location simply has an ID,
a name, and an address.
There is a location controller.
In this controller on line 23,
there is a method called,
"get all locations", and it's mapped to the slash locations path.
This method simply calls out to the location service to get a list of locations.
So let's take a look at the location service.
Here, the location service,
the getLocation's method here on line 16,
simply calls out to
the location repository findAll method and
that simply returns all of the locations found in the data base.
Here's the location repository.
It extends the crud repository.
The application properties file in this file,
it's what we've seen before.
We are enabling the H2 console,
setting the path to slash H2 and using the location tracker,
name, and the data source URL.
There is a data.frame SQL file,
that insert sample records into a location table.
Now, let's talk about security.
Navigate to Spring Security config,
and you can find that under the config folder.
We can do security configurations entirely in a Java class,
by creating a config class that extends web security configure adapter.
So let's take a look at this.
So here, on line 14,
we have at configuration annotation just indicating that it's a configuration.
On line 15, we have at enable web security annotation.
This annotation enables Spring Security's web security support,
and by extending web security configure adapter,
we are able to override a couple of its methods to
set some specifics of the web security configuration.
So the first method that we override is found here on line 18,
it's the configure method.
So let's talk about what we're doing.
Here on line 20,
we are disabling the CSRF feature.
So this is the cross-site request forgery,
and I've included more information on C SRF in the course notes section.
On lines 21 through 23, here,
we're authorizing requests, any request authenticated.
So simply this means,
all requests to the API requires authentication.
Then here on lines 24 and 25,
we are allowing users to use HTTP basic authentication,
so basic off, that's what we talked about before.
Let's scroll down to the configure global method,
that's the next method.
In this method, I'm creating an in-memory user,
and that's what we'll use for authentication.
Online 32, I'm setting the username as admin,
on line 33, I'm setting the username is password,
and I'm giving this just a simple role of user.
Notice here on line 38,
there is an encoder method,
that I'm using to encode the password.
Remember that whenever you use basic off,
the password is base 64 encoded,
so the method helps me do that.
So I've launched the application, is already running,
Tomcat started on port 8080 and it started the security application.
So let's test out our REST API using Postman.
So let's navigate there.
So the URL is simply localhost:8080/locations and let's click send to see what happens.
So we're not able to retrieve a list of locations and the error message
comes back as unauthorized with a status code of 401.
So this is because we've enabled Spring Security and we are expecting
all clients sending request to send in the username and password for authentication.
So now, let's look at an authorized requests.
So here in postman,
I'm doing a get to the same URL localhost:8080locations, but now,
for the authorization type,
I'm using basic auth,
and in the header,
I'm just putting application.JSON.
Notice here on the authorization tab,
there's also a username called admin and then the password is password.
So now, when we make this request to the API,
we're sending in the basic off information.
So this request should be approved.
So let's click send,
and we should see a list of locations.
Yes. So there we have it.
We've added basic auth using Springs Security to secure our API,
to make sure only authorized users can retrieve back a list of locations.